# Codebase for submission to Conference on Natural Language Learning (CoNLL) 2024 paper "Leveraging a Cognitive Model to Measure Subjective Similarity of Human and GPT-4 Written Content"

# Similarities Folder (./Similarities)
This folder contains code for the 4 files required to replicate the 6 similarity metrics discussed in the paper. Additionally there is a similarity.py file containing the superclass of all similarity metrics.  The human subjective similarity, which all similarity metrics are compared against, is in the human.py file, results shown in figure 1. The cosine, weighted cosine, and pruned cosine files are all contained in the cosine.py file, results shown in figures 2-4. The semantic similarity measure is contained in the semantic.py file, results shown in figure 5. Our proposed IBIS similarity metric is in the ibis.py file, results shown in figure 6. All metrics are also displayed in Figure 7. 

## Human 

## Cosine 

## IBIS 

## Semantic


# Data Folder (./Data)
## Annotations 

### UserId

The internal UserId of the participant, this corresponds to the UserId in other data files. 

### Experiment

Experiment 1 or 2, which differed by the type of emails shown to participants and the type of feedback they recieved. 

### ExperimentCondition

The condition of the experiment which in experiment 1 differed by the author and style of the email, in experiment 2 it differed by the style of feedback and method for selecting emails.

### EmailId

The Id of the email, to correspond to the Emails.csv file. 

### PhaseTrial

 The within phase index of the trial, ranging from 0-9 in the pre and post training phases and 0-39 in the training phase. 

### Decision

true represents the participant annotating the email as being a phishing email, fals represents the non-phihsing annotation. 

### EmailType

The true underlying email type, either phishing or non-phishing, as determined by the original cybersecurity experts that wrote the base emails. 

### PhaseValue

The phase of the experiment, either pretraining, training, or posttraining, feedback on annotation accuracy was only shown in the training phase.

### Confidence

The stated confidence of the annotation by the participant, ranging from 0-4. 

### EmailAction

The selected action that the participant would take upon recieving the email.

### ReactionTime

The reaction time of the annotation in miliseconds.

### Correct

1 indicates that the annotation matches the true underlying email type, and 0 indicates that it does not. 


## Demographics 

### UserId

Internal Id for user, corresponds to other data files.

### Age

Participant age in years.

### Gender

Male, Female, Non-Binary

### Education
DD: Doctoral Degree, MD: Master's Degree, BD: Bachelor's Degree, HS: High School

### Country

Country of residence 

### Victim

Whether the participant has been a victim of phishing emails and the number of times 

### Chatbot

Whether the participant has been experience with chatbots

### Q0
What type of language do phishing emails often use to create a sense of panic
    0: Urgent language. <---- Correct Response
    1: Friendly language.
    2: Rude language.
    3: Mean language.
    
### Q1
What might a phishing email request of you to compromise your Identity?
    0: Personal Information like your favorite color.
    1: Sensitive information like credit card numbers. <---- Correct Response
    2: Sensitive information like your celebrity crush.
    3: Irrelevant information like your dog's name

### Q2
What types of actions might phishing emails request from you that would lead to malware being installed on your computer
    0: Clicking links only.
    1: Downloading attachments only.
    2: Replying with your computer's information only.
    3: All of the above. <---- Correct Response
### Q3
How might a phishing email try to ensure that you are susceptible to a phishing attempt?
    0: Being overly friendly.
    1: Calling you a generic title.
    2: By using poor grammar. <---- Correct Response
    3: Saying you won the lottery. 

### Q4
How might a phishing email attempt to convince you that it was sent from a legitimate source?
    0: Using an email from a website that you have never heard of.
    1: Sending the email from a website with a famous company name.
    2: Adding a link to a real website in the text of the email. <---- Correct Response
    3: Using another website name that is different from the one sending the email.

### Q5
How might a phishing email convince you to click on a fake link?
    0: Adding a lot of random numbers and letters into the link. <---- Correct Response
    1: Change the text of the link, which can be checked by hovering over it.
    2: Change the color of the link to make it look like you have clicked it before.
    3: Keeping the link short so it looks legitimate.

### PQ1,
 Of the phishing emails you've encountered, what percentage do you think were generated by artificial intelligence models?
  <option value="phishingWriting100p">100% of the phishing emails I read were written by an Artificial Intelligence model.</option>
  <option value="phishingWriting75p"> 75% of the phishing emails I read were written by an Artificial Intelligence model.</option>
  <option value="phishingWriting50p"> 50% of the phishing emails I read were written by an Artificial Intelligence model.</option>
  <option value="phishingWriting25p"> 25% of the phishing emails I read were written by an Artificial Intelligence model.</option>
  <option value="phishingWriting0p">  0% of the phishing emails I read were written by an Artificial Intelligence model.</option>

### PQ2
Of the ham (i.e non-phishing) emails you've encountered, what percentage do you think were generated by artificial intelligence models?</label>
  <option disabled selected>Please select the percentage that best fits your experience in the study.</option>
  <option value="hamWriting100p">100% of the ham emails I read were written by an Artificial Intelligence model.</option>
  <option value="hamWriting75p"> 75% of the ham emails I read were written by an Artificial Intelligence model.</option>
  <option value="hamWriting50p"> 50% of the ham emails I read were written by an Artificial Intelligence model.</option>
  <option value="hamWriting25p"> 25% of the ham emails I read were written by an Artificial Intelligence model.</option>
  <option value="hamWriting0p">  0% of the ham emails I read were written by an Artificial Intelligence model.</option>



### PQ3

Of the phishing emails you've encountered, what percentage do you think were styled (i.e the appearance  and format) by artificial intelligence models?</label>
  <option value="phishingStyling100p">100% of the phishing emails I read were styled by an Artificial Intelligence model.</option>
  <option value="phishingStyling75p"> 75% of the phishing emails I read were styled by an Artificial Intelligence model.</option>
  <option value="phishingStyling50p"> 50% of the phishing emails I read were styled by an Artificial Intelligence model.</option>
  <option value="phishingStyling25p"> 25% of the phishing emails I read were styled by an Artificial Intelligence model.</option>
  <option value="phishingStyling0p">  0% of the phishing emails I read were styled by an Artificial Intelligence model.</option>
    


### PQ4
Of the ham (i.e non-phishing) emails you've encountered, what percentage do you think were styled (i.e the appearance  and format) by artificial intelligence models?</label>
  <option value="hamStyling100p">100% of the ham emails I read were styled by an Artificial Intelligence model.</option>
  <option value="hamStyling75p"> 75% of the ham emails I read were styled by an Artificial Intelligence model.</option>
  <option value="hamStyling50p"> 50% of the ham emails I read were styled by an Artificial Intelligence model.</option>
  <option value="hamStyling25p"> 25% of the ham emails I read were styled by an Artificial Intelligence model.</option>
  <option value="hamStyling0p">  0% of the ham emails I read were styled by an Artificial Intelligence model.</option>

### PQ5

Open response on the method of annotation of the participant.

## Emails 

### EmailId

The ID of the email, corresponds to the EmailId column in the annotations data file. 

### BaseEmailID

The ID of the email that each email is based on, there are 4 versions of each original email. 

### Author

GPT or Human for the writer of the main body of the email. 

### Style

GPT or plaintext for the style of the email as it was presented. 

### Type

phishing or ham as determined by cybersecurirty experts of the base email 

### Sender Style
Description of the email sender, used in the prompt to GPT to generate an email 'in the style of' the sender 

### Sender
The email of the sender.

### Subject

The subject line of the email.

### Sender Mismatch

Whether there is a mismatch between the sender of the email and the email body. 

### Request Credentials

Whether the email requests credentials from the recipent. 

### Subject Suspicious

Whether the subject of the email is suspicious. 

### Urgent

Whether the tone of the email is urgent. 

### Offer

Whether the email makes an offer. 

### Link Mismatch

Whether the link shown in the email is mismatched from the text of the link. 

### Prompt

The prompt to GPT used to generate the email.

### Body

The main body of the email shown to participants. 

## Messages 

All column values are the same for the trial of the Annotations file that these messages were sent and recieved in appart from the following. 

### MessageNum

The number of the message sent between the user and AI chatbot teacher. 

### Message

The content of the message, formatted as a GPT prompt for messages sent to the teacher. 